hi everyone instead of a review today I
got a little project video for you today
we're going to be talking about how to
replace velcro with metal snaps now
anybody who's used outdoor gear will
tell you that eventually velcro is going
to wear out just with repeated openings
and closings velcro just will not last
even high quality velcro if you look at
this particular strap here which I cut
off of a bag so I can't focus with this
camera if you listen here it's not
grabbing on at all and that's just an
inevitable part of repeated openings and
closings I mean eventually the fuzzy
part is going to stretch out and the
hooks eventually are either going to
come out or they're going to straighten
them they're not going to latch on to
the fuzzy part as well so my answer to
that is to replace it with these metal
snaps and I got two examples here to
show you this is a cold steel Roche
belly knife which i reviewed previously
but the sheath I'm modified if you'll
look here originally when the sheath
came out it had the loop like so and for
you to put this on your belt you would
have to undo your belt and then loop it
through this little strap right here so
what I did was basically I cut the strap
off use the lighter to burn off the
excess in order to seal off the threads
and i added snaps before adding the
snaps i took my belt or the one that i
would wear when i went camping or hiking
in the woods and then measured out the
exact distance that the strap would have
to be to fit comfortably on the belt
without it being too tight or having too
much room to shift about once that was
that the link that i wanted took a
permanent marker and Mark the place wire
without the snaps then just added them
on and now I can just like stick this on
my belt and unsnap it just as easily
makes me more likely to carry the nice
since it is so convenient to just attach
onto my belt so that's a nice little
modification that you might want to
think about if you have a sheet where
the loop is just is just where you have
to attach it this way you can just like
cut it up and then it quick place it
onto your belt another example I have
right here is a wallet and this is
probably more prevalent and relevant to
more people is probably a lot of you buy
like these cheap little
wallets and they have like a Velcro
closure and then after a while of
opening and closing it the velcro
doesn't work anymore but that's easy
enough to fix as well basically you just
take this little thread cutter right
here and you cut all the little threads
that hold the velcro in place and then
you just pull it out then once that
happens you can have these snaps now
there's a saying and sewing you measure
twice and then cut once and that's
really true especially for something
like this just because you want the
placement to be exactly what you want
you don't stick the pans on both sides
here if you look it's from one side of
the wallet right here or actually within
this section if you pinned it from this
side you wouldn't be able to open your
wallet at all you have to measure and go
in from here so that's something to look
out for but by adding a snap here if
you'll notice can clopin and close as
many times as you want it's never going
to work and it's never going to wear out
and it's just a nice little mod that you
can think about so anyways back to the
project itself you can buy this little
snap kick at any sewing store cost you
about seven bucks anywhere and you get
like a little like seven snaps and then
get a little base to hold it in place so
that doesn't shift about now you get
this little driving rod that you place
inside and use a hammer with a real like
the smaller hammer but you can use a
regular size one to drive the pins into
I'm going to explain that in a second
you have four pieces right here so first
part these are the main parts that you
would see when you actually have it in
place this is the male part and this is
the female part and then they snap into
each other I'm not going to snap it
because I don't have a way to pull them
apart just because there's no handle and
then you have these little backing
nipples right here that fit through the
hole and so the idea is I'm just going
to use this little strap as an example
what you would do is you take a marker
and Mark where you want to drive the
holes in be very careful about where the
placement is take a lot of time for an
example here if you look at this wallet
I was a little too eager and if I let
this down close down naturally this
little snap is a little bit too far to
the right
but it works just fine so measure very
carefully because once you do it you can
undo it so mark where you're going to
put the holes and then basically I'm
going to start off one section say you
wanted this to be on the outside because
this is the brass side that you're going
to see like here on the sheath see a
little silver side so you put this on
the outside of wherever you want it to
be drive it through the hole like so now
this might take a few a little bit of
time just because you're going to have
it threads to go to cut through so once
you make that mark you can take a knife
or whatever or even a ballpoint pen and
jam it through and make a hole so you
put the little nipple through the hole
like so and then this is the
corresponding piece this is the female
section of the thing put it through here
like so and then you can take the base
it'll sit nicely in the base like this
that fits in here and then you hold it
in place now you see that nipple what
happens is you're going to take this
driving rod take the pointy end right
here stick it over this nipple and you
take the hammer I'm not going to do it
because I don't want to waste a snap but
you place it into the nipple and then
you use a hammer to push this in what's
that it's going to do it's going to
split the nipple open and it's going to
hold both sections in place if you look
here just grab this I don't know if I
can get this to zoom in if you look in
the center right there use this is a
pointer you see this section right here
it's the pin being split open and it
holds both sides together onto the
material so now I just take that stick
this here hammer it a couple of times
until it opens up the the nipple until
it holds both pieces and place on the
material and that's it for one side the
other side just repeat now you want this
piece the female piece facing the mail
piece and then you want the nipple
pieces on the outside so I would take
this other nipple piece sorry
and stick it through the other hole like
so that
fit this through here like that and then
whoops forgot to put it in the pace
sorry put this over the base like that
put the driving rod over the nipple and
then hammer it into place and that will
open up the nipple and then once that's
done you'll have your snaps now I know
that probably sounds complicated but
really I mean do it once and you'll
pretty much figure out how it's supposed
to be done it's not that hard costs you
only seven bucks and for that I mean you
can really improve how your gear
functions I mean seriously I can't tell
you how easily I can carry this knife
now I mean usually I would just throw in
my pack and forget about it but now I
actually have this on me when I'm hiking
same thing with my wallet I was really
tired of us I was about to throw this
wallet out just because the velcro
didn't work anymore but by adding these
snaps it really made it work so it's my
little thing about the snap kick hope I
didn't make it too confusing for you
guys if you have any questions please
feel free to message me and thanks for
watching all right hope this helps